SPFx Toolkit 4.8.0 release blog post (#2111)
pnp/blog: content/post/spfx-toolkit-vscode-v-4-8-release/index.md

# Taxonomies
categories: ["Community post"]
tags: ["VS Code", "SharePoint Framework (SPFx)"]
type: "regular"
---

## 🗒️ Quick intro

[SharePoint Framework Toolkit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=m365pnp.viva-connections-toolkit) is a Visual Studio Code extension that aims to boost your productivity in developing and managing [SharePoint Framework solutions](https://learn.microsoft.com/sharepoint/dev/spfx/sharepoint-framework-overview?WT.mc_id=m365-15744-cxa) helping at every stage of your development flow, from setting up your development workspace to deploying a solution straight to your tenant without the need to leave VS Code, it even allows you to create a CI/CD pipeline to introduce automate deployment of your app and also comes along with AI capabilities which will allow you to manage your SharePoint Online tenant straight from GitHub Copilot chat extension.

Just check out the features list 👇 it's a looot 🤯.

![features](images/features.png)

Sounds cool 😎? Let's see some new enhancements we added in this minor release

##  Language model tools for GitHub Copilot agent mode

> This is the first prototype of language model tools integrated into the SPFx Toolkit. The goal? To explore how GitHub Copilot in agent mode can help you create, manage, and edit SharePoint content like sites, lists, and items directly from VS Code.
> We’re starting with these core SharePoint scenarios, and plan to expand and refine the available tools in future updates.
> 
> ![llm](images/llm.png)
> ![createsite](images/createsite.png)
> ![githubactionsprogress](images/githubactionsprogress.png)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every SPFx solution, sooner or later, will need some SharePoint resources like a site, page, list, content types, items etc. 
Imagine being able to create them without stepping out of VS Code 🤯!
That is exactly why we took the first steps to make this happen with the help of GitHub Agent mode. SPFx Toolkit now comes along with language model tools that you may use directly from within GitHub Copilot chat extension in agent mode.

![llm](images/llm.png)

Based on your prompt, GitHub Copilot will figure out the best tool that it may use to fulfill your prompt.

![createsite](images/createsite.png)

You may even chain multiple operations within a single prompt, as the agent mode is capable of executing multiple tasks that are required by your prompt.

![githubactionsprogress](images/githubactionsprogress.png)

We are only getting started, but we already see a bright future and many possibilities to reshape how developers will be able to scaffold or prep their solutions. Sky is the limit 🚀!

```

- build
- clean
- serve
- test
- trust-dev-cert
- deploy-azure-storage

No more jumping to the terminal, just run what you need, when you need it.

![gulpactions](images/gulpactions.png)

## Add tenant app catalog & add/remove site app catalog

Managing app catalogs is a crucial part of SharePoint development, and with this release, the SPFx Toolkit makes it easier than ever. Previously, setting up a tenant app catalog or managing site app catalogs required navigating through the SharePoint admin center, which could be time-consuming and sometimes confusing, especially if you’re working across multiple tenants or sites.

Now, you can perform these actions directly from within Visual Studio Code using the toolkit:

- **Add a tenant app catalog:** If your tenant doesn’t already have an app catalog, you can create one with just a few clicks where the toolkit will guide you through the process.
- **Add a site app catalog:** Need to scope app deployment to a specific site collection? You can now add a site app catalog to any eligible site directly from the toolkit. This is especially useful for scenarios where you want to test or deploy solutions without affecting the entire tenant.

> - **Remove a site app catalog:** If you no longer need a site app catalog, you can remove it just as easily. The toolkit ensures that the removal process is safe and provides confirmation prompts to prevent accidental deletions.

Reviewer: let's mention that it is not actual removal but instead it disables the app catalog making all apps from that app catalog not available to be installed on the related site
